{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Gender, Performativity, and 
\b0 \
\
Transformation of the Epic of Mulan over the 20th century \
\
Peng Liyuan = Mrs. President (Xi Jinping)\
	Not only soprano signer but also soldier singer. \
		She has become a general\
\
How does Gender ignite the imaginations of Chinese for centuries?\
	At the turn of the 1900s, Chinese men emasculated by American influence. Had inferiority complex. \
\
	Qiu Jin (1877 - 1907) = age of 14, married to reputable man in Beijing to start a family with 2 children, feels unfulfilled. Wants to seek own selfhood. Goes to Japan and wants to start a life of her own. Made acquaintances with Chinese Triad + chinese revolutionaries. She likes to dress as a man. Goes back to China and makes friends with more like-minded Chinese revolutionary men. Decide to organize a revolution/uprising. in 1907 someone betrayed them, so she was arrested. On trial she refused to admit she was wrong; she prefaced her political goals to the investigators. Therefore she was sentenced to decapitation. \
		in the year of 1907, a woman revolutionary who was otherwise known as a mother of two, was executed in front of a mob of males. She becomes the symbol of Chinese female heroism and martyrdom. She says, "Autumn rain, Autumn wind, My heart dies of sorrow."\
\
	It is ok for men to crossdress but not women.  \
\
End of Mulan always indicates some sort of return to domestic life. So, there is no transformation for women. Is there a transformation for any man? \
\
	Men only view Mulan as a spectacle; they like her character in performance but would not actually want any of their close women to be like her. \
\
	Xie Bingying (1903-). She is arranged to marry to man at 16. She doesn't want to be tied down and she basically convinces him to call the marriage off. Next she wants to leave home and NOT go to school (which was commonplace for girls) but instead wanted to join the military b/c she saw KMT was recruiting women soldiers. \
\

\b Woman and Autobiography Self-inscription \

\b0 	A woman soldier who is very self-reflective regarding her new social role and her uncertainties is a type of woman hero in her own right, even if she's not a martyr. This is because while she might be trying to liberate other Chinese women, they might not be ready to be liberated. \
\
	
\b Gender crossing as a spectacle in theater or in society\
		
\b0 Mei Lanfang (male) (1894-1961) --> most important female impersonator \
		He acts in Mulan (1917, 1926). Interestingly he's a man, playing a woman, playing a man.\
\
	Mulan Joins the Army (1939, during Shanghai's "Island Period", when most of China except of Shanghai was taken by Japanese). A big box office hit featuring a woman star. It's a play about gender crossing, but there's also an ethical issue. Mulan falls in love with a fellow soldier, and she cheats the social hierarchy by pretending to be a man. This version of the play in particular calls into question the National question of the legend. We're not sure if Mulan is even Han Chinese. Isn't it weird that she could, as a girl, already know how to ride horses and be a soldier? Thus national allegory must be evoked. We have to think about the global dimension of the national politics. Japanese = barbarians in Mulan\
\
	One last interpretation of Mulan: In the most recent ones, in 1956, 1964, 1995, and 2009. Wow actually nvm, let's talk about the 2010 musical. Apparnetly this one is down to earth. How are you supposed to take a bath as a girl with your "fellow male" soldiers?  *Cue clip* Anyway the point is, Mulan has become more popular with time. \
	}